## RESTful architecture and DRF advanced

In addition to the methods mentioned in the previous section, using DRF to create REST-style data interfaces can also be done through CBV (Class-Based Views). The characteristics of using CBV to create a data interface are that the code is simple and the development efficiency is high, but it is not as flexible as FBV (function-based view), because using FBV, what kind of code is executed by the view function corresponding to the data interface and what data is returned is highly customizable. Let's take the data interface of the custom discipline as an example to explain the specific method of customizing the data interface through CBV.

### Using CBV

#### Subclasses that inherit APIView

Modify the `polls/views.py` in the previous project, remove the `show_subjects` view function, and add a class named `SubjectView`, which inherits from `ListAPIView`, `ListAPIView` can receive GET requests, it encapsulates the acquisition A `get` method that takes a list of data and returns JSON data. `ListAPIView` is a subclass of `APIView`, and `APIView` has many subclasses, such as `CreateAPIView` can support POST requests, `UpdateAPIView` can support PUT and PATCH requests, `DestoryAPIView` can support DELETE requests. The code for `SubjectView` is shown below.

````Python
from rest_framework.generics import ListAPIView


class SubjectView(ListAPIView):
    # Specify how to get subject data through queryset
    queryset = Subject.objects.all()
    # Specify how to serialize subject data through serializer_class
    serializer_class = SubjectSerializer
````

As I said just now, since the parent class `ListAPIView` of `SubjectView` has implemented the `get` method to process the GET request for obtaining the subject list, we only need to declare how to obtain the subject data and how to sequence the subject data. The former uses `queryset` ` attribute, which is specified with the `serializer_class` attribute. To use the `SubjectView` above, you need to modify the `urls.py` file as shown below.

````Python
urlpatterns = [
    path('api/subjects/', SubjectView.as_view()),
]
````

Obviously, the above approach is much simpler than the FBV mentioned earlier.

#### Inherit ModelViewSet

If the data interface corresponding to the discipline needs to support GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, DELETE requests to support the acquisition, addition, update, and deletion of discipline resources, it is simpler to inherit `ModelViewSet` to write the discipline view class. Modify the `polls/views.py` file again, remove the `SubjectView` class, and add a class named `SubjectViewSet`, as shown below.

````Python
from rest_framework.viewsets import ModelViewSet


class SubjectViewSet(ModelViewSet):
    queryset = Subject.objects.all()
    serializer_class = SubjectSerializer
````

By viewing the source code of the `ModelViewSet` class, it can be found that there are 6 parent classes in this class, of which the first 5 parent classes respectively implement POST (adding a subject), GET (getting a specified subject), and PUT/PATCH (updating a subject). , DELETE (delete a subject) and GET (get a list of subjects) operations are supported, the corresponding methods are `create`, `retrieve`, `update`, `destroy` and `list` respectively. Since these methods have been implemented in the parent class of `ModelViewSet`, we have completed the development of a full set of subject data interfaces without writing any code. All we have to do is point out how to get the data (specified by the `queryset` attribute) And how to serialize the data (specified by the `serializer_class` attribute), which is consistent with the subclass of `APIView` above.

````Python
class ModelViewSet(mixins.CreateModelMixin,
                   mixins.RetrieveModelMixin,
                   mixins.UpdateModelMixin,
                   mixins.DestroyModelMixin,
                   mixins.ListModelMixin,
                   GenericViewSet):
    """
    A viewset that provides default `create()`, `retrieve()`, `update()`,
    `partial_update()`, `destroy()` and `list()` actions.
    """
    pass
````

To use the `SubjectViewSet` above, URL mapping is required in the `urls.py` file. Since `ModelViewSet` is equivalent to a summary of multiple view functions, different from the previous method of mapping URLs, we need to create a router and register `SubjectViewSet` through it, and then add the URL generated after the registration is successful to `urlspattern. ` list, the code is as follows.

````Python
from rest_framework.routers import DefaultRouter

router = DefaultRouter()
router.register('api/subjects', SubjectViewSet)
urlpatterns += router.urls
````

In addition to the `ModelViewSet` class, DRF also provides a class called `ReadOnlyModelViewSet`, which can be seen from the name, this class is a collection of read-only views, which means that the custom data interface that inherits this class is only Can support GET requests, that is, requests to obtain a single resource and a list of resources.

### Data paging

When using a GET request to get a list of resources, we usually don't load all the data at once, unless the amount of data is really small. Most operations for obtaining resource lists support data paging display, which means that we can obtain different data by specifying the page number (or an identifier similar to the page number) and the page size (how many pieces of data are loaded at one time). We can implement paging by slicing the `QuerySet` object, or you can use the `Paginator` and `Page` objects encapsulated by the Django framework to achieve paging. When using DRF, pagination can be implemented by modifying `REST_FRAMEWORK` in the Django configuration file and configuring the default pagination class and page size, as shown below.

````Python
REST_FRAMEWORK = {
    'PAGE_SIZE': 10,
    'DEFAULT_PAGINATION_CLASS': 'rest_framework.pagination.PageNumberPagination'
}
````

In addition to the `PageNumberPagination` pager configured above, DRF also provides the `LimitOffsetPagination` and `CursorPagination` pagers. It is worth mentioning `CursorPagination`, which can avoid exposing the data volume of the website when using page number pagination. Interested readers can learn about it by themselves. If you don't want to use the default pagination settings in the configuration file, you can add a `pagination_class` attribute to the view class to re-specify the pagination, usually this attribute can be specified as a custom paginator, as shown below.

````Python
from rest_framework.pagination import PageNumberPagination


class CustomizedPagination(PageNumberPagination):
    # default page size
    page_size = 5
    # Query parameters corresponding to the page size
    page_size_query_param = 'size'
    # maximum page size
    max_page_size = 50
````

````Python
class SubjectView(ListAPIView):
    # Specify how to get the data
    queryset = Subject.objects.all()
    # Specify how to serialize the data
    serializer_class = SubjectSerializer
    # Specify how to paginate
    pagination_class = CustomizedPagination
````

If you do not want data to be paginated, you can disable the default pagination by setting the `pagination_class` property to `None`.

### Data filtering

If you want to use CBV to customize the data interface for obtaining teacher information, you can also implement it by inheriting `ListAPIView`. However, because the corresponding teacher information needs to be obtained through the specified subject, it is necessary to filter the teacher data instead of directly obtaining the data of all teachers. If you want to get the subject number from the request and filter the teachers by the subject number, you can do it by overriding the `get_queryset` method as shown below.

````Python
class TeacherView(ListAPIView):
    serializer_class = TeacherSerializer

    def get_queryset(self):
        queryset = Teacher.objects.defer('subject')
        try:
            sno = self.request.GET.get('sno', '')
            queryset = queryset.filter(subject__no=sno)
            return queryset
        except ValueError:
            raise Http404('No teachers found.')
````

In addition to the above methods, you can also use the third-party library `django-filter` to cooperate with DRF to filter data. After using `django-filter`, you can configure the `filter-backends` attribute for the view class and specify the use of `DjangoFilterBackend` ` to support data filtering. After completing the above configuration, you can use the `filter_fields` attribute or `filterset_class` attribute to specify how to filter the data, and interested readers can study by themselves.