## Language elements

#### Instructions and Procedures

The hardware system of a computer is usually composed of five components, including: arithmetic unit, controller, memory, input device and output device. Among them, the arithmetic unit and the controller together are what we usually call the central processing unit, and its function is to execute various operations and control instructions and process the data in the computer software. What we usually call a program is actually a collection of instructions. Our program is to organize a series of instructions together in a certain way, and then use these instructions to control the computer to do what we want it to do. The computers we use most of the time today, although their components are more and more sophisticated and their processing power more and more powerful, are still essentially ["von Neumann structures"](https:// en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E5%86%AF%C2%B7%E8%AF%BA%E4%BC%8A%E6%9B%BC%E7%BB%93%E6%9E%84) computer. "Von Neumann structure" has two key points, one is to separate the storage device from the central processing unit, and the other is to propose to encode the data in binary. Binary is a counting method of "every two and one", which is not substantially different from the "decimal one" counting method used by us humans. Humans use decimal because they have ten fingers (because when counting After ten fingers are used up, they can only be rounded. Of course, there are exceptions to everything. The Mayans may have counted the toes because of their bare feet for many years, so they used the decimal system of counting. Under the guidance of this counting method, the Mayan calendar is not the same as the one we usually use, and according to the Mayan calendar, 2012 is the last year of the last so-called "solar period", and 2013 is the new year. The beginning of the "Sun Dynasty", and later this incident was misrepresented in a false way as "2012 is the end of the world predicted by the Mayans". Today we can boldly guess that the slow development of the Mayan civilization is also estimated. related to the use of hexadecimal). For computers, binary is the easiest to implement on physical devices (high voltage represents 1, low voltage represents 0), so computers in the "von Neumann structure" use binary. While we don't need every programmer to be able to work with a binary mindset, it's important to understand binary and how it translates to decimal in our lives, and binary to octal and hexadecimal. necessary. If you are not familiar with this, you can use [Wikipedia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E4%BA%8C%E8%BF%9B%E5%88%B6) or [Baidu] Encyclopedia](https://baike.baidu.com) Popular science.

> **Note**: Recent research on quantum computers has been pushed to the forefront. Quantum computers perform operations based on quantum mechanics and use quantum teleportation to transmit information. In June 2018, Intel announced the development of a new quantum chip and passed tests in a near-absolute zero environment; in 2019, IBM and Google both launched their own quantum computers.

### Variables and Types

In programming, a variable is a carrier for storing data. The variable in the computer is the actual data or a piece of memory space that stores data in the memory. The value of the variable can be read and modified, which is the basis of all calculations and controls. There are many types of data that computers can process. In addition to numerical values, they can also process various data such as text, graphics, audio, and video. Different data need to define different storage types. There are many data types in Python, and it also allows us to customize new data types (this will be discussed later). Let's first introduce several commonly used data types.

- Integer: Python can handle integers of any size (there are two types of integers, `int` and `long` in Python 2.x, but this distinction is not meaningful for Python, so in Python 3.x Integer is only int), and supports binary (such as `0b100`, converted to decimal is 4), octal (such as `0o100`, converted to decimal is 64), decimal (`100`) and hexadecimal system (`0x100`, converted to decimal is 256) notation.
- Floating point type: Floating point numbers are also decimals. The reason why they are called floating point numbers is that the decimal point position of a floating point number is variable when expressed in scientific notation, except for mathematical notation (such as `123.456`) Also supports scientific notation (eg `1.23456e2`).
- String type: A string is any text enclosed in single or double quotes, such as `'hello'` and `"hello"`, strings also have raw string representation, byte string representation, Unicode string representation, and can be written on multiple lines (beginning with three single or three double quotes and ending with three single or three double quotes).
- Boolean: Boolean values ​​have only two values, `True` and `False`, either `True` or `False`. In Python, you can directly use `True` and `False` to represent boolean values ​​(please note case), can also be computed by boolean operations (e.g. `3 < 5` yields a boolean `True`, while `2 == 1` yields a boolean `False`).
- Complex number: the form is `3+5j`, which is the same as the complex number in mathematics, the only difference is that the `i` of the imaginary part is replaced by `j`. In fact, this type is not commonly used, and everyone knows it.

#### variable naming

For each variable we need to give it a name, just like each of us has our own loud name. In Python, variable naming needs to follow these non-hard rules that must be followed and those that are strongly recommended.

- Hard rules:
  - The variable name consists of letters (generalized Unicode characters, excluding special characters), numbers and underscores, and numbers cannot start.
  - Case sensitive (uppercase `a` and lowercase `A` are two different variables).
  - Do not conflict with keywords (words with special meanings, which will be described later) and system reserved words (such as the names of functions, modules, etc.).
- PEP 8 requirements:
  - Spell in lowercase letters, and connect multiple words with underscores.
  - Protected instance properties start with a single underscore (more on this later).
  - Private instance properties start with two underscores (more on this later).

Of course, as a professional programmer, it's also very important to be sensible when naming variables (in fact, all identifiers).

#### Variable usage

The following examples illustrate the types and usage of variables.

````Python
"""
Use variables to save data and perform addition, subtraction, multiplication and division operations

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
a = 321
b = 12
print(a + b) # 333
print(a - b) # 309
print(a * b) # 3852
print(a / b) # 26.75
````

The type of a variable can be checked in Python using the `type` function. The concept of function in programming is consistent with the concept of function in mathematics. I believe everyone is familiar with function in mathematics. It includes function name, independent variable and dependent variable. It doesn't matter if you don't understand this concept for the time being, we will explain the definition and use of functions in subsequent chapters.

````Python
"""
Use type() to check the type of a variable

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
a = 100
b = 12.345
c = 1 + 5j
d = 'hello, world'
e = True
print(type(a)) # <class 'int'>
print(type(b)) # <class 'float'>
print(type(c)) # <class 'complex'>
print(type(d)) # <class 'str'>
print(type(e)) # <class 'bool'>
````

Variable types can be converted using functions built into Python.

- `int()`: Convert a number or string to an integer, you can specify the base.
- `float()`: Converts a string to a float.
- `str()`: Convert the specified object into a string, and you can specify the encoding.
- `chr()`: Convert an integer to a string (one character) corresponding to the encoding.
- `ord()`: Convert a string (a character) to the corresponding encoding (integer).

The following code performs arithmetic operations on two integers by entering two integers through the keyboard.

````Python
"""
Use the input() function to get keyboard input (string)
Convert the input string to an integer using the int() function
Use the print() function to output a string with placeholders

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
a = int(input('a = '))
b = int(input('b = '))
print('%d + %d = %d' % (a, b, a + b))
print('%d - %d = %d' % (a, b, a - b))
print('%d * %d = %d' % (a, b, a * b))
print('%d / %d = %f' % (a, b, a / b))
print('%d // %d = %d' % (a, b, a // b))
print('%d %% %d = %d' % (a, b, a % b))
print('%d ** %d = %d' % (a, b, a ** b))
````

> **Note**: The string output in the above print function uses placeholder syntax, where `%d` is a placeholder for integers, `%f` is a placeholder for decimals, `%%` Represents a percent sign (because the percent sign represents a placeholder, the percent sign in a string with a placeholder must be written as `%%`), the variable value following the `%` after the string will be Replace the placeholder and output it to the terminal, run the above program, and see the execution result of the program.

### operator

Python supports a variety of operators. The following table roughly lists all operators in descending order of precedence. The precedence of an operator refers to what operation is performed first and then when multiple operators appear at the same time. what operation. In addition to the assignment operators and arithmetic operators we have used before, we will talk about the use of other operators later.

| operator | description |
| ------------------------------------------------- ----------- | ------------------------------ |
| `[]` `[:]` | subscript, slice |
| `**` | Index |
| `~` `+` `-` | bitwise negation, sign |
| `*` `/` `%` `//` | Multiply, divide, modulo, divide |
| `+` `-` | add, subtract |
| `>>` `<<` | Move right, move left |
| `&` | Bitwise AND |
| `^` `\|` | Bitwise XOR, Bitwise OR |
| `<=` `<` `>` `>=` | Less than or equal to, less than, greater than, greater than or equal to |
| `==` `!=` | equal, not equal |
| `is` `is not` | Identity operator |
| `in` `not in` | Member operator |
| `not` `or` `and` | Logical operators |
| `=` `+=` `-=` `*=` `/=` `%=` `//=` `**=` `&=` `|=` `^=` `>>= ` `<<=` | (compound) assignment operator |

>**Note:** In actual development, if you don't know the priority of operators, you can use parentheses to ensure the execution order of operations.

#### assignment operator

The assignment operator should be the most common operator, its role is to assign the value on the right to the variable on the left. The following examples demonstrate the use of assignment operators and compound assignment operators.

````Python
"""
assignment operator and compound assignment operator

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
a = 10
b = 3
a += b # Equivalent to: a = a + b
a *= a + 2 # Equivalent to: a = a * (a + 2)
print(a) # Calculate what will be output here
````

### Comparison and Logical Operators

Comparison operators are also called relational operators in some places, including `==`, `!=`, `<`, `>`, `<=`, `>=`, I believe there is no good explanation, You can understand it at a glance, the only thing you need to remind is that `==` is used to compare equality. Please note that there are two equal signs in this place, because `=` is an assignment operator, as we just mentioned above, ` ==` is the comparison operator that compares for equality. Comparison operators produce boolean values, either `True` or `False`.

There are three logical operators, `and`, `or` and `not`. `and` literally means "and", so the `and` operator concatenates two booleans. If both booleans are `True`, then the result of the operation is `True`; the left and right boolean values ​​have a is `False`, the final result of the operation is `False`. I believe you have already thought that if the boolean value on the left of `and` is `False`, no matter what the boolean value on the right is, the final result is `False`, so the value on the right side will be skipped during the operation ( short-circuiting), which means that if the left side of the and operator is `False`, the expression on the right side will not be executed at all. `or` literally means "or", so the `or` operator also concatenates two booleans. If either of the two booleans is `True`, then the final result is `True`. Of course, the `or` operator is also short-circuiting, and in the case where the boolean value on its left is `True`, the expression on the right will not be executed at all. The `not` operator is followed by a boolean value, and its function is to get the opposite value of the boolean value, that is, if the following boolean value is `True`, the result of the operation is `False`, and the latter boolean value is `False`. A boolean value of `False` evaluates to `True`.

````Python
"""
Use of Comparison and Logical Operators

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
flag0 = 1 == 1
flag1 = 3 > 2
flag2 = 2 < 1
flag3 = flag1 and flag2
flag4 = flag1 or flag2
flag5 = not (1 != 2)
print('flag0 =', flag0) # flag0 = True
print('flag1 =', flag1) # flag1 = True
print('flag2 =', flag2) # flag2 = False
print('flag3 =', flag3) # flag3 = False
print('flag4 =', flag4) # flag4 = True
print('flag5 =', flag5) # flag5 = False
````

> **Note**: The comparison operator has a higher priority than the assignment operator, so `flag0 = 1 == 1` first does `1 == 1` to generate the boolean value `True`, and then assigns this value to the variable `flag0`. The `print` function can output multiple values, which can be separated by `,`, and the output contents are separated by spaces by default.

### practise

#### Exercise 1: Convert Fahrenheit to Celsius.

> Hint: The conversion formula from Fahrenheit to Celsius is: $C=(F - 32) \div 1.8$.

Reference answer:

````Python
"""
Convert Fahrenheit to Celsius

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
f = float(input('Please enter the temperature in Fahrenheit: '))
c = (f - 32) / 1.8
print('%.1f Fahrenheit = %.1f Celsius' % (f, c))
````

> **Note**: When using the `print` function to output, you can also format the string content. The string `%.1f` in the `print` function above is a placeholder, which will be described later Replace it with a variable value of type `float`. Similarly, if there is `%d` in the string, you can replace it with a variable value of type `int` later, and `%s` will be replaced by the value of the string. In addition to this way of formatting strings, you can also format strings in the following ways, where `{f:.1f}` and `{c:.1f}` can be seen as `{f} first ` and `{c}`, indicating that these two placeholders will be replaced with the values ​​of the variable `f` and the variable `c` during output, and the latter `:.1f` indicates that this is a floating point number, which is reserved after the decimal point 1 significant figure.
>
> ````Python
> print(f'{f:.1f}Fahrenheit = {c:.1f}Celsius')
> ````

#### Exercise 2: Calculate the perimeter and area by entering the radius of the circle.

Reference answer:

````Python
"""
Enter the radius to calculate the circumference and area of ​​the circle

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
radius = float(input('Please enter the radius of the circle: '))
perimeter = 2 * 3.1416 * radius
area = 3.1416 * radius * radius
print('Perimeter: %.2f' % perimeter)
print('Area: %.2f' % area)
````

#### Exercise 3: Enter the year to determine whether it is a leap year.

Reference answer:

````Python
"""
Enter the year if it is a leap year, output True, otherwise output False

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
year = int(input('Please enter the year: '))
# If the code is too long to write on one line and it is not easy to read, you can use \ to wrap the code
is_leap = year % 4 == 0 and year % 100 != 0 or \
          year % 400 == 0
print(is_leap)
````

> **Explanation**: Comparison operators will generate boolean values, and logical operators `and` and `or` will combine these boolean values, and finally get a boolean value, output `True` in leap years, and output ` in normal years False`.