## loop structure

### Application scenarios

When we write programs, we must encounter scenarios where we need to repeatedly execute a certain instruction or instructions. For example, using a program to control a robot to play football, if the robot holds the ball and has not entered the shooting range, then we must always issue instructions to move the robot towards the goal. In this scenario, moving the robot towards the goal is an action that needs to be repeated. Of course, the branch structure described in the previous lesson will be used to determine whether the robot is holding the ball and whether it has entered the shooting range. To give another simple example, if we want to print "hello, world" on the screen every 1 second and continue to print for an hour, we certainly can't directly put the code of `print('hello, world')` Write 3600 times, and the loop structure is also required here.

A loop structure is a structure in a program that controls the repeated execution of a certain instruction or instructions. There are two ways to construct a loop structure in Python, one is a `for-in` loop, and the other is a `while` loop.

### for-in loop

If you know exactly how many times the loop will execute or you want to iterate over a container (described later), then we recommend using a `for-in` loop, such as the following code to calculate the sum of 1 to 100 ($\displaystyle \ sum \limits_{n=1}^{100}n$).

````Python
"""
Use for loop to achieve 1~100 summation

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""

sum = 0
for x in range(101):
    sum += x
print(sum)
````

It should be noted that `range(1, 101)` in the above code can be used to construct a range from 1 to 100. When we put such a range into a `for-in` loop, we can pass the previous loop The variable `x` takes the integers from 1 to 100 in turn. Of course, the usage of `range` is very flexible, an example is given below:

- `range(101)`: It can be used to generate integers in the range of 0 to 100. It should be noted that 101 cannot be obtained.
- `range(1, 101)`: can be used to generate an integer in the range of 1 to 100, which is equivalent to a closed interval followed by an open interval.
- `range(1, 101, 2)`: can be used to generate odd numbers from 1 to 100, where 2 is the step size, that is, the value to increment each time.
- `range(100, 0, -2)`: can be used to generate even numbers from 100 to 1, where -2 is the step size, the value by which each number is decremented.

Knowing this, we can use the following code to achieve the sum of even numbers between 1 and 100.

````Python
"""
Use for loop to achieve the sum of even numbers between 1 and 100

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""

sum = 0
for x in range(2, 101, 2):
    sum += x
print(sum)
````

Of course, the same function can also be achieved by using a branch structure in the loop, as shown in the code below.

````Python
"""
Use for loop to achieve the sum of even numbers between 1 and 100

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""

sum = 0
for x in range(1, 101):
    if x % 2 == 0:
        sum += x
print(sum)
````

> **Note**: Compared with the above method of skipping odd numbers directly, the following method is obviously not a good choice.

### while loop

If you want to construct a loop structure without knowing the exact number of loops, we recommend using a `while` loop. A `while` loop controls the loop by an expression that produces or converts a `bool` value. The value of the expression is `True` to continue the loop; the value of the expression is `False` to end the loop.

Let's take a look at how to use the `while` loop through a small game of "guessing the number". The rules of the number guessing game are: the computer generates a random number between 1 and 100, the player enters the number he guessed, and the computer gives the corresponding prompt information (bigger, smaller or correct), if the player guesses correctly Number, the computer prompts the user how many times to guess, the game is over, otherwise the game continues.

````Python
"""
number guessing game

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
import random

answer = random.randint(1, 100)
counter = 0
while True:
    counter += 1
    number = int(input('Please input: '))
    if number < answer:
        print('bigger')
    elif number > answer:
        print('smaller')
    else:
        print('Congratulations on your guess!')
        break
print('You guessed %d times in total' % counter)
if counter > 7:
    print('Your IQ balance is obviously insufficient')
````

The `break` keyword is used in the above code to terminate the loop early. It should be noted that `break` can only terminate the loop in which it is located. This needs attention when using nested loop structures (described below). . In addition to `break`, another keyword is `continue`, which can be used to abandon the subsequent code of this loop and directly let the loop enter the next round.

Like the branch structure, the loop structure can also be nested, that is to say, the loop structure can also be constructed in the loop. The following example demonstrates how to output a nine-nine multiplication table through nested loops.

````Python
"""
Output multiplication formula table (nine-nine table)

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""

for i in range(1, 10):
    for j in range(1, i + 1):
        print('%d*%d=%d' % (i, j, i * j), end='\t')
    print()
````

### practise

#### Exercise 1: Enter a positive integer to determine whether it is a prime number.

> **Hint**: A prime number is an integer greater than 1 that is only divisible by 1 and itself.

Reference answer:

````Python
"""
Enter a positive integer to determine if it is a prime number

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
Date: 2018-03-01
"""
from math import sqrt

num = int(input('Please enter a positive integer: '))
end = int(sqrt(num))
is_prime = True
for x in range(2, end + 1):
    if num % x == 0:
        is_prime = False
        break
if is_prime and num != 1:
    print('%d is a prime number' % num)
else:
    print('%d is not a prime number' % num)
````

#### Exercise 2: Enter two positive integers and calculate their greatest common divisor and least common multiple.

> **Hint**: The greatest common divisor of two numbers is the largest common factor of the two numbers; the least common multiple of two numbers is the smallest number that can be divisible by both numbers at the same time.

Reference answer:

````Python
"""
Enter two positive integers to calculate their greatest common divisor and least common multiple

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
Date: 2018-03-01
"""

x = int(input('x = '))
y = int(input('y = '))
# If x is greater than y, swap the values ​​of x and y
if x > y:
    # Assign the value of y to x and the value of x to y by doing the following
    x, y = y, x
# Start a decrementing loop from the smaller of the two numbers
for factor in range(x, 0, -1):
    if x % factor == 0 and y % factor == 0:
        print('The greatest common divisor of %d and %d is %d' % (x, y, factor))
        print('The least common multiple of %d and %d is %d' % (x, y, x * y // factor))
        break
````

#### Exercise 3: Print the triangle pattern shown below.

````
*
**
***
****
*****
````

````
    *
   **
  ***
 ****
*****
````

````
    *
   ***
  *****
 ******
*********
````

Reference answer:

````Python
"""
print triangle pattern

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""

row = int(input('Please enter the number of rows: '))
for i in range(row):
    for _ in range(i + 1):
        print('*', end='')
    print()


for i in range(row):
    for j in range(row):
        if j < row - i - 1:
            print(' ', end='')
        else:
            print('*', end='')
    print()

for i in range(row):
    for _ in range(row - i - 1):
        print(' ', end='')
    for _ in range(2 * i + 1):
        print('*', end='')
    print()
````