## Constructor logic

After studying the previous chapters, I feel it is necessary to take you here to do some exercises to consolidate what we have learned before. Although the content we have learned so far is only the tip of the Python iceberg, it is enough for us to build programs. logic in. For beginners in programming languages, after learning the core language elements of Python (variables, types, operators, expressions, branching structures, looping structures, etc.), one thing that must be done is to try to use what you have learned to Solving real-world problems, in other words, is exercising the ability to translate algorithms (methods and steps to solve problems) described in human natural language into Python code, which must be achieved through a lot of practice.

We have sorted out some classic cases and exercises for you in this chapter. We hope that through these examples, on the one hand, we will help you consolidate the Python knowledge you have learned before, and on the other hand, help you understand how to build the logic in the program and how to use some simple algorithms Solve real problems.

### Classic example

1. Find **Daffodils**.

   > **Explanation**: The daffodil number is also known as the hypercomplete number invariant, narcissistic number, exponentiation number, Armstrong number, it is a 3-digit number, and the sum of the cubes of the digits in each digit of the number is exactly is equal to itself, eg: $1^3 + 5^3+ 3^3=153$.

   ````Python
   """
   Find the number of all daffodils
   
   Version: 0.1
   Author: Luo Hao
   """
   
   for num in range(100, 1000):
       low = num % 10
       mid = num // 10 % 10
       high = num // 100
       if num == low ** 3 + mid ** 3 + high ** 3:
           print(num)
   ````

   In the above code, we find the ones, tens, and hundreds of a three-digit number through division and modulo operations. This trick is still commonly used in actual development. In a similar way, we can also reverse a positive integer, for example: change 12345 to 54321, the code is as follows.

   ````Python
   """
   Inversion of positive integers
   
   Version: 0.1
   Author: Luo Hao
   """
   
   num = int(input('num = '))
   reversed_num = 0
   while num > 0:
       reversed_num = reversed_num * 10 + num % 10
       num //= 10
   print(reversed_num)
   ````

2. The problem of **a hundred dollars and a hundred chickens**.

   > **Description**: Baiqian Baiji is an ancient Chinese mathematician [Zhang Qiujian](https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%BC%A0%E4%B8%98%E5%BB %BA/10246238) Mathematical problem raised in the book "Sanjing": One chicken is worth five dollars, one mother is worth three, and three chicks is worth one. Hundreds of money to buy a hundred chickens, ask how many chickens, hens, and chicks are? Translated into modern text, it is: 5 yuan for a rooster, 3 yuan for a hen, 3 chickens for 1 yuan, and 100 yuan to buy 100 chickens. How many roosters, hens, and chickens are there?

   ````Python
   """
   "Hundred Money Hundred Chickens" Question
   
   Version: 0.1
   Author: Luo Hao
   """
   
   for x in range(0, 20):
       for y in range(0, 33):
           z = 100 - x - y
           if 5 * x + 3 * y + z / 3 == 100:
               print('rooster: %d, hen: %d, chick: %d' % (x, y, z))
   ````

   The method used above is called **exhaustive method**, also known as **brute force search method**, this method lists all possible candidates in the alternative solution one by one and examines each candidate Whether it conforms to the description of the problem, and finally obtains the solution of the problem. This approach may seem clumsy, but it is usually a viable or even a good choice for very powerful computers, and if there is a solution to the problem, this approach is sure to find it.

3. **CRAPS GAMBLING GAME**.

   > **Description**: CRAPS, also known as Craps, is a very popular table gambling game in Las Vegas, USA. The game uses two dice, and players get points by rolling the two dice to play the game. The simple rule is: if the player rolls the dice for the first time and rolls 7 or 11, the player wins; if the player rolls 2, 3 or 12 for the first time, the banker wins; other players continue to roll the dice, If the player rolls a 7, the banker wins; if the player rolls the first roll, the player wins; for other points, the player continues to roll the dice until the winner is determined.

   ````Python
   """
   Craps gambling game
   We set the player to start the game with a bet of 1000 yuan
   The game ends when the player loses all bets
   
   Version: 0.1
   Author: Luo Hao
   """
   from random import randint
   
   money = 1000
   while money > 0:
       print('Your total assets are:', money)
       needs_go_on = False
       while True:
           debt = int(input('Please bet: '))
           if 0 < debt <= money:
               break
       first = randint(1, 6) + randint(1, 6)
       print('The player shakes the %d point' % first)
       if first == 7 or first == 11:
           print('Player wins!')
           money += debt
       elif first == 2 or first == 3 or first == 12:
           print('Banker wins!')
           money -= debt
       else:
           needs_go_on = True
       while needs_go_on:
           needs_go_on = False
           current = randint(1, 6) + randint(1, 6)
           print('The player shakes the %d point' % current)
           if current == 7:
               print('Banker wins')
               money -= debt
           elif current == first:
               print('Player wins')
               money += debt
           else:
               needs_go_on = True
   print('You are broke, game over!')
   ````

### Useful exercises

1. Generate the first 20 numbers of the Fibonacci sequence.

   > **Description**: The Fibonacci sequence, also known as the golden section sequence, is an Italian mathematician Leonardoda Fibonacci proposed in the Book of Calculations The sequence introduced by the problem of the growth rate of rabbits under ideal assumptions, so this sequence is also jokingly called &quot;rabbit sequence&quot;. The characteristic of the Fibonacci sequence is that the first two numbers of the sequence are 1, starting from the third number, each number is the sum of the two preceding numbers, such as: 1, 1, 2, 3, 5 , 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144, …. The Fibonacci sequence has direct applications in modern physics, quasi-crystal structure, chemistry and other fields.

2. Find the **perfect number** within 10000.

   > **Explanation**: A perfect number is also called a perfect number or a complete number, and the sum of all its true factors (that is, factors other than itself) (that is, the factor function) is exactly equal to itself. For example: 6 ($6=1+2+3$) and 28 ($28=1+2+4+7+14$) are perfect numbers. Perfect numbers have many magical properties, and those who are interested can learn about them by themselves.

3. Output **all prime numbers within 100**.

   > **Note**: A prime number refers to a positive integer (excluding 1) that is only divisible by 1 and itself.

The reference answers for the above exercises are in the code directory corresponding to this chapter. If you need help, please check the reference answers by yourself.