## Data Analysis Overview

Today's world is increasingly dependent on information technology, and a large amount of data is generated every day. We often feel that there are more and more data, but it is more and more difficult to find valuable information from it. The information mentioned here can be understood as the result of processing the data set, which is the conclusive thing extracted from the data set that can be used in other occasions, and **extracts valuable information from the original data** We call this process **data analysis**, and it is part of data science work.

### Data Analyst Responsibilities and Skill Stack

We usually refer to the positions engaged in data analysis, data mining and data products as data analysis positions, but according to the nature of the work, they can be divided into business-oriented data analysis direction and algorithm-oriented data mining. Direction**, product-oriented **data product direction**, and development-oriented **data engineering direction**. The data analyst we usually refer to mainly refers to the **business data analyst**. Many data analysts start their careers from this position, and this position is also the most recruited position. Business data analysts usually do not belong to the R&D department in the company but **belong to the operation department**, so this position is also called **data operation** or **business analysis**, usually the description of this position in the recruitment information (JD )Yes:

1. Responsible for the relevant reports of each department.
2. Establish and optimize the indicator system.
3. Monitor data fluctuations and anomalies to identify problems.
4. Optimize and drive business and drive digital operations.
5. Identify potential markets and product upsides.

According to the above description, as a business data analyst, our job is not to give the leader a simple and simple conclusion, but to combine the company's business to complete **monitoring data**, **finding out anomalies**, **finding the cause **, **Explore Trends** jobs. Therefore, as a data analyst, whether using Python language, Excel, SPSS or other business intelligence tools, tools are only means to achieve goals, **data thinking is the core skill**, and starting from actual business problems to the final** discovery Business value** in data is the ultimate goal. Data analysts are only a basic position in many companies. Data analysts who are proficient in business can develop into management positions such as **data analysis manager** or **data operations director**; for data analysts who are familiar with machine learning algorithms It can be said that it can develop in the direction of **data mining engineer** or **algorithm expert**. In addition to the corresponding knowledge of mathematics and statistics, these positions also have higher requirements than data analysts in terms of programming ability. It is also necessary to have relevant experience in big data storage and processing; as a data product manager, in addition to the skill stack of traditional product managers, it also requires strong technical capabilities, such as understanding commonly used recommendation algorithms, machine learning models, and being able to provide algorithms for algorithms. It can provide the basis for the improvement of the company, and can formulate the specifications and caliber of relevant buried points. Although it is not necessary to be proficient in various algorithms, it is necessary to consider the implementation of data models, indicators, algorithms, etc. from the perspective of products; data engineer is a technical position. , The basic growth path starts from SQL and gradually migrates to the Hadoop ecosystem, requiring programming experience in the Java language.

The following is my summary of the data analyst's skill stack, for reference only.

1. Computer Science (data analysis tools, programming languages, databases)
2. Mathematics and Statistics (Data Thinking, Statistical Thinking)
3. Artificial Intelligence (Machine Learning Algorithms)
4. Business understanding (communication, presentation, experience)
5. Summary and presentation skills (business PPT, text summary)

### Data analysis process

When we mention that the word data analysis may often refer to data analysis in a narrow sense, the main goal of this type of data analysis is to generate visual reports and gain insight into business problems through these reports. **Data analysis in a broad sense** also includes the part of data mining, not only to monitor and analyze the business through data, but also to use machine learning algorithms to find the knowledge hidden behind the data, and use this knowledge for the future. decision-making support. Simply put, **a complete data analysis should include two parts: basic data analysis and in-depth data mining**.

Basic data analysis work generally includes the following aspects, of course, there will be slight differences due to different industries and work content.

1. Determine the target (input): understand the business and determine the caliber of indicators
2. Get data: data warehouse, spreadsheet, third-party interface, web crawler, open dataset, etc.
3. Data cleaning: missing/duplicate/outlier handling, data transformation (formatting, normalization), data reduction, discretization, etc.
4. Explore data: operations, statistics, grouping, aggregation, visualization
5. Data report (output): data release, work results summary report
6. Analytical insights (follow-up): explain changes in data and propose corresponding solutions

In-depth data mining work usually includes the following aspects, of course, there will be slight differences due to different industries and work content.

1. Determine the target (input): understand the business and clearly identify the target
2. Data preparation: data collection, data description, data exploration, quality judgment, etc.
3. Data processing: data extraction, data cleaning, data transformation, special coding, dimensionality reduction, feature selection, etc.
4. Data modeling: model comparison, model selection, algorithm application
5. Model evaluation: cross-checking, parameter tuning, result evaluation
6. Model deployment (output): model implementation, business improvement, operation monitoring, report writing

### Data analysis related libraries

Using Python for data science work is a great option because there are a large number of mature software packages (tool libraries) for data science in the Python ecosystem. And unlike other programming languages ​​for data science (such as: Julia, R), Python can do a lot of things in addition to data science. It can be said that the Python language is almost omnipotent.

#### Three Artifacts

1. [NumPy](https://numpy.org/): Supports common array and matrix operations, implements the encapsulation of multi-dimensional arrays through the `ndarray` class, and provides methods and function sets for operating these arrays. Since NumPy has built-in parallel computing capabilities, when using a multi-core CPU, Numpy will automatically do parallel computing.
2. [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/): The core of pandas is its unique data structures `DataFrame` and `Series`, which allow pandas to handle tables and time frames containing different types of data Sequences, which NumPy's `ndarray` cannot do. Using pandas, you can easily and smoothly load data in various forms, then slice, dice, handle missing values, aggregate, reshape, and visualize the data.
3. [Matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/): matplotlib is a library containing various plotting modules, capable of creating high-quality graphs based on the data we provide. In addition, matplotlib provides the pylab module, which contains many plotting components like [MATLAB](https://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab.html).

#### Other related libraries

1. [SciPy](https://scipy.org/): Improves the functions of NumPy and encapsulates a large number of scientific computing algorithms, including linear algebra, sparse matrix, signal and image processing, optimization problems, fast Fourier transformation etc.
2. [Seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/): seaborn is a graphical visualization tool based on matplotlib. Although matplotlib can be used directly to customize beautiful statistical charts, it is generally not simple and convenient. Seaborn is quite Therefore, matplotlib is encapsulated, allowing users to make various attractive statistical charts in a more concise and effective way.
3. [Scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/): originally part of SciPy, scikit-learn is the core of Python data science operations and provides a large number of possible machine learning tools, including : Data preprocessing, supervised learning (classification, regression), unsupervised learning (clustering), pattern selection, cross-checking, etc.
4. [Statsmodels](https://www.statsmodels.org/stable/index.html): A library containing classical statistical and econometric algorithms.