## MySQL performance optimization

### The basic principle

To get the best performance out of MySQL, you need to follow 3 basic usage principles.

1. Let MySQL return to the basic function of storage: MySQL database is only used for data storage, does not perform complex data calculation, does not carry business logic, and ensures the separation of storage and calculation;
2. When querying data, try single-table query to reduce cross-database query and multi-table association;
3. Eliminate a series of performance killers such as large transactions, large SQL, large batches, and large fields.
    - Large transaction: There are many running steps, involving many tables and fields, which can easily lead to resource contention and even deadlock. Once the transaction is rolled back, it will cause the resource to take up too long.
    - Big SQL: Complex SQL means too many table associations. When MySQL database processes SQL with more than three tables or more, it takes up a lot of resources and has low performance.
    - Large batches: Multiple SQLs are executed at one time, which can reduce the extra overhead of executing SQLs one by one. However, it is necessary to ensure sufficient testing and execute them during low business peak hours or non-business hours.
    - Large fields: The large fields of blob and text types should be used as little as possible. When they must be used, they should be separated from the main business table as much as possible to reduce the retrieval and update of such fields.

### Build database and table

1. The default storage engine must be specified as InnoDB, and the MyISAM storage engine must be disabled. With the release of MySQL 8.0, all data dictionary tables have been converted to InnoDB, and the MyISAM storage engine has become a thing of the past.
2. The default character set is UTF8mb4. The previous version of UTF8 is UTF8mb3, which does not contain individual special characters. The new version of UTF8mb4 contains all characters. The official strongly recommends using this character set.
3. Turn off case sensitivity. Set the value of the parameter `lower_case_table_names` to `1` to turn off the case sensitivity function, that is, the uppercase letter T is the same as the lowercase letter t.
4. Functions such as stored procedures, triggers, views, and events should be implemented in the program as much as possible. On the one hand, it is to separate storage and calculation. On the other hand, because these functions are very incomplete, debugging, troubleshooting, and monitoring are very difficult. Related The data dictionary is also incomplete and there are potential risks. Generally in production databases, use is prohibited.
5. The number of tables in a single database instance is controlled within 2000.

#### Notes on InnoDB Tables

1. Use `unsigned` integers for primary key columns, you can use `auto_increment`, but it is forbidden to manually update the primary key.
2. Each column must have a `comment` comment.
3. The `engine` must be specified explicitly when creating a table.
4. The table must have three fields: `xxx_id`, `xxx_create`, `xxx_modified`. Among them, `xxx_id` is the primary key, and the type is `unsigned` integer type (for example: `int unsigned`); the types of `xxx_create` and `xxx_modified` are both `datetime` type, which respectively record the creation time and modification time of the data.
5. All fields must specify `not null`, and specify the `default` value for the null value, because MySQL is difficult to optimize the `null` value, and the composite index containing the `null` value will fail, resulting in low query efficiency.
6. The number of fields in a single table should be within 50 fields as far as possible. If there are too many fields, vertical splitting can be considered.
7. Disable `enum` and `set` types, because such types are not compatible and perform poorly.
8. Large files should not use the `blob` type but the path to save them. Types such as `blob` and `text` will lead to poor processing performance and greatly increase the cost of full table scans.
9. For precision-sensitive data such as currency, fixed-point numbers (`decimal`) should be used instead of floating-point numbers (`float`).
10. Do not use `char(15)` to save IP address, you should use `int unsigned`, you can use `inet_aton` and `inet_ntoa` functions to convert integers and IP addresses.

### use index

In the previous article ["Relational Database MySQL"](../Day36-40/36-38. Relational Database MySQL.md), we have already talked about the relevant knowledge of indexes, here we make a brief review.

#### Index Design Principles

1. The column to create the index is not necessarily the column to be queried in the `select` operation. The most suitable column for the index is the one that appears in the `where` clause and is often used as a filter condition or in the join clause as a table join condition. column.
2. The unique column has good indexing effect; the column with many duplicate values ​​has poor indexing effect.
3. If creating an index for the string type, it is best to specify a prefix length to create a short index. Short indexes can reduce disk I/O and perform better when doing comparisons, and more importantly, MySQL's underlying high-speed index cache can cache more key values.
4. When creating a composite index (multi-column index) with N columns, it is equivalent to creating N indexes, and the leftmost prefix should be used for matching.
5. Don't overuse indexes. The more indexes the better, the indexes need to occupy additional storage space and will affect the performance of write operations (the indexes also need to be updated when inserting, deleting, and updating data). When MySQL generates an execution plan, it needs to consider the use of each index, which also takes time.
6. Pay attention to the scenarios that may invalidate the index, such as: fuzzy query using pre-wildcard, query using negative conditions, etc.

### Use process

A procedure, also commonly referred to as a stored procedure, is a collection of SQL compiled in advance and stored in the database. Calling stored procedures can simplify the work of application developers, reduce communication with the database server, and help improve the performance of data operations. -40/36-38. Relational database MySQL.md) has been mentioned in the article.

### Data partition

MySQL supports data partitioning, through which more data can be stored, queries can be optimized, greater throughput can be obtained, and expired data can be quickly deleted. Regarding this knowledge point, it is recommended that you take a look at MySQL's [official documentation] (https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/partitioning-overview.html). There are the following types of data partitions:

1. RANGE partition: Based on the continuous interval range, the data is allocated to different partitions.

   ````SQL
   CREATE TABLE tb_emp (
       eno INT NOT NULL,
       ename VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL,
       job VARCHAR(10) NOT NULL,
       hiredate DATE NOT NULL,
       dno INT NOT NULL
   )
   PARTITION BY RANGE( YEAR(hiredate) ) (
       PARTITION p0 VALUES LESS THAN (1960),
       PARTITION p1 VALUES LESS THAN (1970),
       PARTITION p2 VALUES LESS THAN (1980),
       PARTITION p3 VALUES LESS THAN (1990),
       PARTITION p4 VALUES LESS THAN MAXVALUE
   );
   ````

2. LIST partition: Based on the range of enumeration values, the data is allocated to different partitions.

3. HASH partition / KEY partition: Based on the number of partitions, data is allocated to different partitions.

   ````SQL
   CREATE TABLE tb_emp (
       eno INT NOT NULL,
       ename VARCHAR(20) NOT NULL,
       job VARCHAR(10) NOT NULL,
       hiredate DATE NOT NULL,
       dno INT NOT NULL
   )
   PARTITION BY HASH(dno)
   PARTITIONS 4;
   ````

### SQL optimization

1. Locate inefficient SQL statements - slow query logs.

   - View slow query log related configuration

      ````SQL
      mysql> show variables like 'slow_query%';
      +--------------------------+--------------------- -------------+
      | Variable_name | Value |
      +--------------------------+--------------------- -------------+
      | slow_query_log | OFF |
      | slow_query_log_file | /mysql/data/localhost-slow.log |
      +--------------------------+--------------------- -------------+

      mysql> show variables like 'long_query_time';
      +-----+------------+
      | Variable_name | Value |
      +-----+------------+
      | long_query_time | 10.000000 |
      +-----+------------+
      ````

   - Create slow query log file and modify owner.

      ````Bash
      touch /var/log/mysqld-slow.log
      chown mysql /var/log/mysqld-slow.log
      ````

   - Modify the global slow query log configuration.

      ````SQL
      mysql> set global slow_query_log_file='/var/log/mysqld-slow.log'
      mysql> set global slow_query_log='ON';
      mysql> set global long_query_time=1;
      ````
      
   - Or directly modify the MySQL configuration file to enable the slow query log.
     
      ````INI
      [mysqld]
      slow_query_log=ON
      slow_query_log_file=/var/log/mysqld-slow.log
      long_query_time=1
      ````

   > **Note**: If you modify the configuration file, you need to restart MySQL. The corresponding command on CentOS is `systemctl restart mysqld`.

2. Understand the SQL execution plan through `explain`. E.g:

   ````SQL
   explain select ename, job, sal from tb_emp where dno=20\G
   **************************** 1. row ******************** ******
              id: 1
     select_type: SIMPLE
           table: tb_emp
            type: ref
   possible_keys: fk_emp_dno
             key: fk_emp_dno
         key_len: 5
             ref: const
            rows: 7
           Extra: NULL
   1 row in set (0.00 sec)
   ````

   - `select_type`: query type (SIMPLE - simple query, PRIMARY - main query, UNION - union, SUBQUERY - sub query).
   - `table`: The table of the output result set.
   - `type`: access type (ALL - the worst performance for full table queries, index, range, ref, eq_ref, const, NULL).
   - `possible_keys`: Indexes that may be used when querying.
   - `key`: The actual index used.
   - `key_len`: The length of the index field.
   - `rows`: The number of rows to scan, the smaller the number of rows, the better the performance.
   - `extra`: extra information.

3. Analyze SQL with `show profiles` and `show profile for query`.

   MySQL supports the profile system since 5.0.37 to help users understand the details of SQL execution performance. You can check whether MySQL supports and enables the profile system in the following way.

   ````SQL
   select @@have_profiling;
   select @@profiling;
   ````

   If the profile system is not turned on, it can be turned on by the following SQL.

   ````SQL
   set profiling=1;
   ````

   Next, you can use the profile system to understand the execution performance of SQL, for example:

   ````SQL
   mysql> select count(*) from tb_emp;
   +------------+
   | count(*) |
   +------------+
   | 14 |
   +------------+
   1 row in set (0.00 sec)
   
   mysql> show profiles;
   +----------+------------+------------------------- ----+
   | Query_ID | Duration | Query |
   +----------+------------+------------------------- ----+
   | 1 | 0.00029600 | select count(*) from tb_emp |
   +----------+------------+------------------------- ----+
   1 row in set, 1 warning (0.00 sec)
   
mysql> show profile for query 1;
   +------------+------------+
   | Status | Duration |
   +------------+------------+
   | starting | 0.000076 |
   | checking permissions | 0.000007 |
   | Opening tables | 0.000016 |
   |init | 0.000013 |
   | System lock | 0.000007 |
   | optimizing | 0.000005 |
   | statistics | 0.000012 |
   | preparing | 0.000010 |
   | executing | 0.000003 |
   | Sending data | 0.000070 |
   | end | 0.000012 |
   | query end | 0.000008 |
   | closing tables | 0.000012 |
   | freeing items | 0.000032 |
   | cleaning up | 0.000013 |
   +------------+------------+
   15 rows in set, 1 warning (0.00 sec)
   ````

4. Optimize CRUD operations.

   - Optimized `insert` statement
     - Inserting an `insert` statement followed by multiple sets of values ​​performs better than a separate `insert`.
     - If there are multiple connections inserting data into the same table, use `insert delayed` for better performance.
     - If you are loading data from a text file into a table, using `load data infile` is much more performant than `insert`.

   - Optimize `order by` statement

     - If the conditions of the `where` clause are the same as those of the `order by` clause, and the sorting order is the same as that of the index, and if the sorting fields are in ascending or descending order at the same time, then only the index can be used to complete the sorting .

   - Optimized `group by` statement

     - If you want to avoid the overhead of sorting when grouping using the `group by` clause, you can disable sorting with `order by null`.

   - Optimize nested queries

     - MySQL supports nested queries (subqueries) since 4.1, which makes it possible to use the results of one query as part of another query. In some cases, subqueries can be replaced by more efficient join queries, since MySQL does not need to create temporary tables in memory to complete a query that logically requires multiple steps to complete.

   - Optimization or condition

     - If there is an `or` relationship between conditions, the index will only take effect if all conditions use the index.

   - Optimized pagination query

     - When paging query, a headache is like `limit 1000, 20`. At this time, MySQL has sorted the first 1020 records but only returns the 1001st to 1020th records, the first 1000 records are not actually used, query and sorting The cost is very high. A common optimization idea is to complete the sorting and paging operations on the index, and then perform the table join operation according to the returned results to obtain the final result, which can avoid full table query and external sorting.

       ````SQL
       select * from tb_emp order by ename limit 10000, 20;
       select * from tb_emp t1 inner join (select eno from tb_emp order by ename limit 10000, 20) t2 on t1.eno=t2.eno;
       ````

       In the above code, the second line of SQL is better than the first line of SQL, of course, our premise is that an index has been created on the `ename` field.

   - Use SQL hints
     - USE INDEX: MySQL is recommended to use the specified index.
     - IGNORE INDEX: It is recommended that MySQL ignore the specified index.
     - FORCE INDEX: Force MySQL to use the specified index.

### Configuration optimization

The default values ​​of MySQL server configuration parameters can be viewed using the following command.

````SQL
show variables;
show variables like 'key_%';
show variables like '%cache%';
show variables like 'innodb_buffer_pool_size';
````

Use the following command to know the MySQL server running status value.

````SQL
show status;
show status like 'com_%';
show status like 'innodb_%';
show status like 'connections';
show status like 'slow_queries';
````

1. Adjust `max_connections`: the maximum number of MySQL connections, the default is 151. On a Linux system, if the memory is sufficient and the user's waiting time for response is not considered, MySQL can theoretically support up to 10,000 connections, but in general, this value is recommended to be controlled within 1000.
2. Adjust `back_log`: the size of the backlog request queue of TCP connections, usually one-fifth of max_connections, and the maximum cannot exceed 900.
3. Adjust `table_open_cache`: This value should be set to N times max_connections, where N represents the maximum number of tables opened at query time per connection.
4. Adjust `innodb_lock_wait_timeout`: This parameter can control the time that InnoDB transactions wait for row locks. The default value is 50ms. For applications with high feedback response requirements, this value can be reduced to avoid long-term suspension of transactions; for background tasks, This value can be increased to avoid large rollbacks.
5. Adjust `innodb_buffer_pool_size`: InnoDB data and index memory buffer size, in bytes, the higher this value is set, the less disk I/O operations need to be performed to access table data, and if possible even The value is set to 80% of the physical memory size.

### Architecture optimization

1. Improve table access efficiency by splitting.
   - vertical split
   - Horizontal split

2. Inverse paradigm theory. The standardization degree of data table design is called normal form. To improve the standardization degree of the table, it is usually necessary to split the large table into smaller tables. The possibility of problems when updating data will be greatly reduced, but saving space means that it may take more time to query data, and the original single-table query may become a linked-table query. For this reason, in project practice, we usually perform reverse-paradigm operations, deliberately lowering the paradigm level and adding redundancy to reduce query time overhead.
   - 1NF: Column can no longer be split
   - 2NF: all attributes depend on the primary key
   - 3NF: All attributes are directly dependent on the primary key (elimination of transitive dependencies)
   - BCNF: Eliminate non-trivial multivalued dependencies

3. Use the intermediate table to improve the speed of statistical query.

   Use a statement such as `insert into intermediate table select ... where ...` to filter out the required data and put it into the intermediate table, and then perform statistics on the intermediate table to avoid unnecessary operations and processing.

4. Master-slave replication and read-write separation, please refer to ["Project Deployment Online and Performance Tuning"] (./98. Project Deployment Online and Performance Tuning.md) for details.

5. Configure the MySQL cluster.

> **Explanation**: The content of this chapter refers to the book "Introduction to MySQL" produced by NetEase. This book, like "High Performance MySQL", provides in-depth and detailed explanations of MySQL. Although the overall feeling is that the latter is more advanced, but The former can also be regarded as a masterpiece for improving MySQL skills (the author's writing skills are slightly rough, and the depth is not as deep as the latter). It is recommended that interested readers can read these two books.