## Network API interface design

At present, many web applications and mobile applications use the front-end and back-end separation development model. The front-end and back-end separation simply means that the front-end or mobile terminal interacts with the back-end through the network API interface, obtains the data provided in the interface and is responsible for the rendering of the user interface. . API is the abbreviation of application programming interface. Network API usually refers to a resource that can be accessed based on a URL (Uniform Resource Locator), that is to say, through this URL, we can request the server to operate on a resource and return the result of the operation. You can think about it, isn't the network API interface also a kind of encapsulation, in short, it hides the complex business logic in the simple API interface.

The general format of a URL is as follows:

````
protocol://username:password@host:port/path1/.../pathN/resourcename
````

> **Description**: Username in URL (may not need to provide user name), password (may not need to provide password), port (possibly use default port), path (resource may be located directly in root path `/`) is not a required part and can be set as needed.

Network APIs are usually accessed based on HTTP or HTTPS. The biggest advantage of using HTTP/HTTPS is that it is very simple and convenient to access, and can be accessed and interoperated across languages ​​and applications.

### Design Principles

#### The key issue

A very important principle in designing web APIs for mobile or PC is: **Design APIs based on business entities rather than user interfaces or operations**. If the design of the API interface is based on the user's operation or the function settings on the interface, as the requirements change, the user interface will also be adjusted, and the required data will also change, then the back-end developers will keep on Adjusting the API, or designing multiple versions of an API, will increase the development and maintenance costs of the project. We can understand the business entity as the resource provided by the server, and the URL is the locator (identifier) ​​of the resource, which is the most simple and natural way. For relatively complex user operations, we can provide a "facade" (the "facade mode" in the design mode), through which the functions of multiple interfaces can be assembled.

The following is the interface of a website's open API. It can be seen that the design of the API is carried out around the business entity, and all of them have achieved "seeing the name and knowing the meaning".

| Comments | |
| ----------------- | ---------------------- |
| comments/show | Get a list of comments on a Weibo |
| comments/by_me | own comment list |
| comments/to_me | List of comments received |
| comments/mentions | @Added my own comment list |
| comments/create | Create a comment |
| comments/destroy | delete a comment |
| comments/reply | Reply to a comment |

It should be noted that **the above API interface is not REST style**. REST is a web application architectural style that is considered to be most suitable for distributed web applications. For the knowledge of REST, you can read Ruan Yifeng's ["Understanding RESTful Architecture"](http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2011/09/restful.html) and ["RESTful API Design Guide"](http: //www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2014/05/restful_api.html), of course, everyone should read these two articles critically, because the views stated above are not completely correct, and some of the contents are even self-contradictory.

The data returned by the API interface is usually in **JSON** or **XML** format, and the data format of XML has been basically deprecated at present. For data in JSON format, we need to do not return the value of null, because once such a value is mishandled, it will bring unnecessary trouble to front-end and mobile development (because developers may use strongly typed languages) . To solve this problem, we can start from the source. When designing the database, try to add a "not null" constraint to each field or set a reasonable default value constraint.

#### other problems

1. Update prompt questions: Design an API that must be accessed first each time the system is used. The API will return information about system updates to the mobile terminal, so that users can update the App.
2. Version upgrade issue: Compatibility with lower versions should be considered when upgrading API versions, and both new and old versions should be accessible. The version information can be included in the URL or the version number can be placed in the HTTP(S) protocol. Head, there are a lot of debates on this issue, if you are interested, you can take a look at [stack overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/972226/how-to-version-rest-uris) on this issue discuss.
3. Image size problem: The mobile terminal may require different sizes for an image. You can pass in the size parameters when acquiring the image and obtain the corresponding resources; a better way is to use cloud storage or CDN directly (image scaling is directly provided). function), which can speed up access to resources.

### Documentation writing

The following takes the design comment interface as an example to briefly explain how the interface document should be written.

First, we can define global return status codes.

| Return code | Return information | Description |
| ------ | ------------ | ------------------------------ ----- |
| 10000 | Get comment success | |
| 10001 | Comment created successfully | |
| 10002 | Could not create comment | Could not create comment while creating a review because of moderation violation |
| 10003 | Comments have been deleted | Comments have been deleted for dissonance when viewing comments |
| 10004 | …… | …… |

1. Get article comments.

   **GET** `/articles/{article-id}/comments/`

   Developer: Wang Dazhui

   Last updated: August 10, 2018

   Tags: v 1.0

   Interface description: Get all comments of the specified article

   Help: 20 pieces of data are returned by default, and the identity (key) needs to be set in the request header

   Request parameters:

   | Parameter Name | Type | Required | Parameter Location | Description |
   | ------ | ------ | -------- | -------- | ----------------- ------------------- |
   | page | integer | no | query parameter | page number, default 1 |
   | size | Integer | No | Query parameter | The number of comments obtained each time (10~100), the default value is 20 |
   | key | string | yes | request header | user ID |

   Response information:

   ````JSON
   {
       "code": 10000,
       "message": "Successful getting comments",
       "page": 1,
       "size": 10,
       "totalPage": 35,
       "contents": [
           {
               "userId": 1700095,
               "nickname": "King Sledgehammer",
               "pubDate": "July 31, 2018",
               "content": "Is the editor sick?",
               /* ... */
           },
           {
           "userId", 1995322,
               "nickname": "Bai Yuanfang",
               "pubDate": "August 2, 2018",
               "content": "Well said upstairs",
               /* ... */
           }
       ]
       /* ... */
   }
   ````

2. Add article comments.

   **POST** `/articles/{article-id}/comments`

   Developer: Wang Dazhui

   Last updated: August 10, 2018

   Tags: v 1.0

   Interface description: create a comment for the specified article

   Use help: no

   Request parameters:

   | Parameter Name | Type | Required | Parameter Location | Description |
   | ------- | ------ | -------- | -------- | ---------- |
   | userId | string | yes | message body | user id |
   | key | string | yes | request header | user's token |
   | content | string | yes | message body | comment content |

   Response information:

   ````JSON
   {
       "code": 10001,
       "message": "Comment created successfully",
       "comment": {
           "pubDate": "July 31, 2018",
           "content": "Is the editor sick?"
           /* ... */
       }
       /* ... */
   }
   ````



> **Tips**: If you have no experience in writing interface documents, you can use the online interface document editing platform [RAP2](<http://rap2.taobao.org/>) or [YAPI](<http://yapi. demo.qunar.com/>) to write interface documentation.