## Software testing and automated testing

### Software Testing Overview

Software testing is a process used to facilitate the identification of the correctness, integrity, safety and quality of software, that is, operating a program under specified conditions to find errors in the program, measure the quality of the software and determine whether it is correct or not. The process of evaluating whether the design requirements can be met.

#### Test method

Black Box Testing: Testing the functionality of an application, not its internal structure or operation. Testers do not need to have specific knowledge of the application's code, internal structure, and programming language. The tester only needs to know what the system is supposed to do, that is, when a certain input is entered, a certain output can be obtained. The test case is designed according to the specifications, specifications or requirements according to the functions that the application system should do. The tester selects valid and invalid inputs to verify the correct output. This testing method is suitable for most software testing, such as integration testing and system testing.

White box testing: Testing the internal structure or functioning of an application, rather than testing the functionality of the application (i.e. black box testing). In white box testing, test cases are designed in terms of programming languages. The tester inputs the data to verify the flow path of the data flow in the program and determines the appropriate output, similar to the nodes in the test circuit.

Due to time and cost constraints, one of the most critical questions in software testing is: "**Among all possible test cases, which subset will find the most bugs?**". Therefore, when designing test cases, white-box testing focuses on the degree of program logic coverage (statement coverage, conditional coverage, branch coverage). Black-box testing can use equivalence class division, boundary value analysis, causal diagram analysis, wrong guessing and other methods to Design test cases.

#### Type of test (phase)

Unit testing: The purpose of testing software components is to verify the correctness of the basic components of the software. The object of the test is the smallest unit of software design - the function.

Integration test: Assemble program modules with appropriate integration strategies, and test the correctness of system interfaces and integrated functions. Its main purpose is to check whether the interface between software units is correct, and the object of integration testing is the modules that have been unit tested.

System testing: System testing mainly includes functional testing, interface testing, reliability testing, usability testing, and performance testing. 

Regression Testing: Testing activities performed to detect bugs introduced by code modifications. Regression testing is an important task in the software maintenance phase. Studies have shown that the cost of regression testing accounts for more than 1/3 of the total cost of the software life cycle.

#### Test Driven Development (Agile Testing)

Test-driven development consists of the following three steps:

1. Write automated tests for unimplemented new features or improvements.
2. Provide the minimum amount of code that passes all defined tests.
3. Refactor the code to meet the required quality standards.

The benefit of test-driven development is that it can effectively prevent software regressions and provide higher-quality code. Another is that acceptance testing should be performed by customers, who design acceptance tests for usage scenarios to objectively and impartially confirm whether the application meets their requirements. Features that pass unit tests, or even system tests, may not pass customer acceptance tests.

#### Testing of Internet Apps and Mobile Apps

Testing strategies for Internet applications:

1. Presentation layer testing (content testing, site structure testing, user environment (browser, operating system, etc.))
2. Business layer testing (performance, data validation, transactions, external services)
3. Persistence layer testing (response time, data integrity, fault tolerance)

Testing strategies for mobile applications:

1. Real machine test
2. Simulator-based testing

### Unit (module) testing

There is a unittest module in the Python standard library for writing unit tests. It is recommended to use [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) or nose2 when executing tests. pytest is a test execution tool that automatically searches and executes tests, and outputs detailed error reports. For unit testing, you can take a look at ["Python must-have unit testing framework - unittest"](https://blog.csdn.net/huilan_same/article/details/52944782).



You can install the [testfixtures](https://pypi.org/project/testfixtures/) library to assist unit testing. It integrates a variety of typical configurators and provides functional modules for generating directories, changing system dates, and generating mock objects. These modules help us separate our unit tests from the environment the unit tests depend on. [mock](https://pypi.org/project/mock/) is a library that replaces the objects that the test object depends on with virtual objects. When testing, we can specify the return of the virtual object when it is called value and whether an exception occurred, etc.

tox easily prepares the environment we need to execute our tests. tox will set up test environments in multiple virtualenv environments, then execute tests in these environments and display the results. It can unify the options and environment variables of the test tool, so we can easily complete the required tests by executing the tox command.

### automated test

#### UI automation testing

##### Desktop - [PyAutoGui](<https://pyautogui.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>)



##### Mobile - [Appnium](<http://appium.io/>)



##### Web - [Selenium](<https://docs.seleniumhq.org/>)

Selenium is a browser-driven testing tool group that automates functional testing and integration testing of web applications. Like users who use a browser, Selenium can make mouse operations in the browser, enter text in forms, validate form values, etc., and use this to turn manual operations into automated operations.

1. Advantages of Selenium

  - Easy to make automated test cases. Selenium provides the Selenium IDE tool, which can capture mouse and keyboard operations, and then repeat these operations through the replay function, so that test cases can be easily made.
  - Supports multiple browsers and operating systems.

2. Components of Selenium

  - [Selenium IDE](https://www.seleniumhq.org/projects/ide/)
  - [Selenium Remote Control](https://www.seleniumhq.org/projects/remote-control/)
  - [Selenium WebDriver](https://www.seleniumhq.org/projects/webdriver/)

3. Collaborate with continuous integration tools

   Continuous integration refers to the frequent integration of code into the trunk. It has two main benefits:

   - Find bugs quickly. Every time a little update is completed, it is integrated into the trunk, errors can be found quickly, and it is easier to locate errors.
   - Prevent branches from straying too far from the trunk. If it is not integrated frequently, and the backbone is constantly updated, it will become more difficult to integrate in the future, or even difficult to integrate.

   The purpose of continuous integration is to allow products to iterate quickly while maintaining high quality. Its core measure is that before the code is integrated into the trunk, it must pass automated tests, and as long as one test case fails, it cannot be integrated. Programming guru Martin Fowler once said, "Continuous integration doesn't eliminate bugs, it makes them very easy to find and fix."

   The "Seleniumhq Plugin" plugin can be installed in Jenkins, so that the test cases made by Selenium IDE can be saved in HTML format and provided to Jenkins for use. The basic steps are:

   - On the machine where the tests are executed, download the test suite and test cases from the version control system.

   - Download Selenium Server on the machine where the tests are executed.

   - Select "Plugin Management" from "System Administration" in Jenkins to install "Seleniumhq Plugin".

   - Select "System Settings" in "System Administration" in Jenkins and configure "HTMLSuite Runner" under "Selenium Remote Control".

   - Create a new Jenkins task for testing and configure it. The configuration includes: browser, start URL, test suite and test result output file.

   Once configured, Jenkins' "Build Now" can be executed.

In addition to Selenium, [WebTest](https://pypi.org/project/WebTest/), [Splinter](<https://splinter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>) and [RobotFramework](< https://robotframework.org/>) is also the choice for web-side testing, in which WebTest can perform simulated requests for WSGI applications and obtain results, basically all WSGI application tests can use it; Splinter is a secondary encapsulation of Selenium , which is more convenient and simple to use.

#### Interface test automation test

1. [requests](<https://cn.python-requests.org/zh_CN/latest/>)
2. [HttpRunner](<https://docs.httprunner.org/>)
3. [PyRestTest](<https://github.com/svanoort/pyresttest>)

#### Other automated tests

1. [Locust](<https://www.locust.io/>)

2. [pythem](<https://github.com/m4n3dw0lf/PytheM>)

### Test related tools

1. PostMan
2. AB
3. JMeter
4. LoadRunner
5. Benchmark Factory
6. WAS