## Common questions in interviews

### Computer Basics

1. Issues related to the TCP/IP model.

   > It is recommended to read Ruan Yifeng's ["Introduction to Internet Protocol (1)"](http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2012/05/internet_protocol_suite_part_i.html) and ["Introduction to Internet Protocol (2)"](http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2012/05/internet_protocol_suite_part_i.html) http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2012/06/internet_protocol_suite_part_ii.html).

2. HTTP and HTTPS related issues.

   > It is recommended to read Ruan Yifeng's ["HTTP Protocol Introduction"](http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2016/08/http.html) and ["SSL/TLS Protocol Operating Mechanism Overview"](http: //www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2014/02/ssl_tls.html).

3. Linux common commands and services.

4. The relationship between processes and threads. When to use multithreading? When to use multiprocessing? .

5. Relational database related issues (ACID, transaction isolation level, locks, SQL optimization).

6. Issues related to non-relational databases (CAP/BASE, application scenarios).

### Python Basics

1. Which standard libraries and third-party libraries have been used in development.

   > standard library: sys/os/re/math/random/logging/json/pickle/shelve/socket/datetime/hashlib/configparser/urllib/itertools/collections/functools/threading/multiprocess/timeit/atexit/abc/asyncio/ base64/concurrent.futures/copy/csv/operator/enum/heapq/http/profile/pstats/ssl/unittest/uuid
   >
   > 3rd party libraries: openpyxl/xlrd/xlwt/PyPDF2/ReportLab/PyYAML/jieba/pillow/requests/urllib3/responses/aiohttp/BeautifulSoup4/lxml/pyquery/PyMySQL/psycopg2/redis/PyMongo/Peewee/SQLAlchemy/alipay/PyJWT/ itsdangerous/celery/flower/elasticsearch-dsl-py/PyCrypto/Paramiko/logbook/nose/pytest/coverage/Selenium/lineprofiler/memoryprofiler/matplotlib/pygal/OpenCV

2. The role, principle and implementation of decorators.

3. What magical methods have been used.

   > Recommended reading [The Python Magic Methods Guide](https://pycoders-weekly-chinese.readthedocs.io/en/latest/issue6/a-guide-to-pythons-magic-methods.html).

4. Writing of generative expressions, generators, and iterators.

5. The underlying implementation of lists, sets, and dictionaries.

6. Garbage collection related issues.

7. Issues related to concurrent programming.

8. Knowledge of coroutines and asynchronous I/O.

### Django and Flask

1. What problem does MVC Architecture (MTV) solve.

2. The execution process of the middleware and how to customize the middleware.

3. How to design the REST data interface (URL, domain name, version, filtering, status code, security).

   > It is recommended to read Ruan Yifeng's ["RESTful API Design Guide"](http://www.ruanyifeng.com/blog/2014/05/restful_api.html).

4. Use the ORM framework to implement CRUD operations related issues.

   - How to implement multi-condition combined query / How to execute native SQL / How to avoid N+1 query problem

5. How to perform asynchronous tasks and timed tasks.

6. How to implement page caching and query caching? How does the cache warm up?

### Reptile related

1. Components and data processing flow of the Scrapy framework.
2. The purpose of crawling (where in the project the data of the crawler needs to be used).
3. Tools used (capture, download, clean, store, analyze, visualize).
4. The source of the data (can easily list 10 websites).
5. The composition of the data (what is the use of a captured field in the project).
6. Anti-anti-crawling measures (speed limit, request header, cookie pool, proxy pool, Selenium WebDriver, RoboBrowser, TOR, OCR).
7. The volume of data (how much data was finally captured, how many W pieces of data or how many G data).
8. Post data processing (persistence, data completion, normalization, formatting, dumping, classification).

### data analysis

1. Scientific operation function library (common operations in SciPy and NumPy).
2. Data analysis library (commonly used algorithms encapsulated in Pandas).
3. Commonly used models and corresponding scenarios (classification, regression, clustering).
4. What specific indicators were extracted.
5. How to evaluate the pros and cons of the model.
6. The actual operation steps of each model and how to evaluate the results.

### Project related

1. The composition of the project team and your role in the team (responsibilities in the project).
2. The business architecture of the project (which modules and sub-modules) and technical architecture (mobile terminal, PC terminal, back-end technology stack).
3. Software control management related tools (version control, problem management, continuous integration).
4. Core business entities and their attributes, relationships between entities.
5. Which dependent libraries are used, and which aspects of the problems are mainly solved by the dependent libraries.
6. How to deploy the project and its physical architecture (Nginx, Gunicorn/uWSGI, Redis, MongoDB, MySQL, Supervisor, etc.).
7. How to test the project and whether performance tuning has been done.
8. What are the difficulties encountered in the project and how to solve them.